UtahJS Talk on Civic Hacking
###############################################

:date: 2013-10-03
:tags: civic hacking
:slug: utahjs-civic-hacking
:author: Daniel Zappala

Today I am giving a talk at the UtahJS Orem group, on the topic of
civic hacking. This is a local developer group that promotes web
programming and Javascript for software developers. I was introduced
to this group by Jason Dobry, one of my students who is a big
Javascript enthusiast.

My topic is civic hacking -- writing apps that help connect citizens
with local government. This is a really hot area right now, with
organizations like `Code For America <http://codeforamerica.org>`__
and `Open City Apps <http://opencityapps.org>`__ building numerous
open source apps. Open City Apps focuses on developing apps for
Chicago, and has an impressive set of deployed services. Code for
America hosts fellows in San Francisco to build open source apps, and
helps them spin these into startups. Other organizations, such as the
`Sunlight Foundation <Sunlight Foundation OpenGov Grants>`__ and the
`Knight Foundation
<http://www.knightfoundation.org/funding-initiatives/tech-engagement/>`__,
are offering grants to encourage more civic hacking.

My goal in giving this talk is to get local developers excited about
civic hacking and to encourage them to collaborate with the `BYU Open
Source Lab <http://osl.byu.edu>`__ in developing open source civic
apps. We already have one app, `Citizen Budget
<http://citizenbudget.org>`__, which we have `deployed for the city of
Cedar Hills <http://budget.cedarhills.org>`__, and are looking to
develop more. For example, we're interested in building a customer
service portal and methods to get quick feedback from residents on
City Council agenda items. I would love to get a `Code for America
brigade <http://brigade.codeforamerica.org/>`__ started at BYU or in
the Utah County area.

My slides are here: `Civic Hacking </static/docs/utahjs.pdf>`__

