Research
##############

:date: 2013-09-05 00:03
:slug: research
:order: 3
:author: Daniel Zappala

Research
========

I am broadly interested in making the Internet work better. Currently,
my interests span the areas of networking, security, and usability,
with a focus on authentication and usable encryption. Past projects
have included multicast routing and transport protocols, streaming
video, peer-to-peer networking, and social networking.

Current Projects
----------------

`TrustBase <http://internet.byu.edu/research/trustbase>`__: TrustBase
is an architecture that provides certificate-based authentication as
an operating system service.  TrustBase enforces best practices for
certificate validation for all applications and transparently enables
existing applications to be strengthened against failures of the CA
system.

.. image:: /images/trustbase-architecture.png
   :width: 400

`Usable Authentication Ceremonies
<https://internet.byu.edu/research/alice>`__: Most popular secure
messaging applications are usable because they hide many of the
details of how encryption is provided. However, the strength of the
security properties of these applications rests on the authentication
ceremony, in which users validate the encryption keys being
used. Unfortunately, recent studies show that most users do not know
how to successfully complete this ceremony and are thus vulnerable to
potential attacks. We are studying methods to improve the usability of
the authentication ceremony, so that it is easy for users to locate
and complete the ceremony.

.. image:: /images/whatsapp-verification.png
   :width: 200	   

`TLS Proxies <http://internet.byu.edu/research/tls-proxies>`__: We
have been measuring the prevalence of TLS proxies using a tool we
deployed with a Google AdWords campaign.  We have also conducted
surveys to understand user attitudes and preferences toward the
inspection of encrypted traffic.

.. image:: /images/tls-proxy-measurement.png
   :width: 400

Past Research
-------------

Past research topics include measurements of the Steam game network,
cloud storage, sentiment analysis, wireless networks, streaming video
algorithms, peer-to-peer networking, and multicast routing. See
`Publications <|filename|publications.rst>`__ for more details.
