Software
##############

:date: 2013-09-05 00:03
:slug: software
:order: 4
:author: Daniel Zappala

Software
========

.. image:: /static/images/eff.png
   :height: 50
   :align: right
   :target: http://www.eff.org

I am a strong proponent of free and open source software, and I am
also an advocate for software patent reform. Please support the `Electronic Frontier Foundation <http://www.eff.org>`__.

Code is developed through the `Internet Research Lab
<http://internet.byu.edu>`__ and the `Open Source Lab
<http://osl.byu.edu/>`__.

Network Research
----------------

`WiFu <https://github.com/zappala/wifu>`__: A composable toolkit for
experimental wireless transport protocols, from the `WiFu
<http://internet.byu.edu/research/wifu>`__ project. Designed to help
researchers and developers create transport protocols in user space.

`omnet-extension <https://github.com/zappala/omnet-extension>`__ and
`inet-extension <https://github.com/zappala/inet-extension>`__: Code
for OMNET++ that enables the simulator to interact with the decision
engine of a streaming video player, from the `Dynamic Adaptive
Streaming over HTTP <http://internet.byu.edu/research/dash>`__
project.

Family History
--------------
      
`leaf <http://leaf.byu.edu>`__:A free website to analyze your
FamilySearch tree and find people that need your attention. You can
search for people who are missing a birth or marriage date, haven't
yet been baptized, or numerous other criteria. Uses colorful charts or
a Google-style search to show the results.

Some of the code for leaf has been released `FamilyTree sample app
<https://github.com/byu-osl/familytree-sample-app>`__.

`Chiamo <https://github.com/byu-osl/chiamo-android>`__: A family
history game for youth. In the very early stages of development. See
the `wireframe design
<https://github.com/byu-osl/chiamo-android/wiki/Design>`__ for what
we're thinking about.

`Python GEDCOM Parser
<https://github.com/rootsdev/python-gedcom-parser>`__: A basic parser
for the GEDCOM 5.5 format.

Civic Apps
----------

`Citizen Budget <http://citizenbudget.org>`__: An online application
showing the details of your city's finances, using charts and
graphs. Used to display the budget for the city of `Cedar Hills <http://cedarhills.org>`__ at `budget.cedarhills.org <http://budget.cedarhills.org>`__.

Web Design
----------

I have started putting up all of the web pages as open source, with
the graphics and design elements licensed via Creative Commons. These
include:

- My `personal <https://github.com/zappala/personal-web>`__ web pages
  for this site, `zappala.byu.edu <http://zappala/byu.edu>`__.

- My `campaign <https://github.com/zappala/campaign>`__ campaign pages
  for Cedar Hills City Council, hosted at `vote.zappala.org
  <http://vote.zappala.org>`__.

- The `pages <https://github.com/byu-ilab/ilab-web>`__ for the `BYU
  Internet Research Lab <http://internet.byu.edu>`__.

- The `pages <https://github.com/byu-osl/osl-webpages>`__ for the `BYU
  Open Source Lab <http://osl.byu.edu>`__.

- The pages for `CS 360 <https://github.com/zappala/cs360-web>`__ and
  `CS 660 <https://github.com/zappala/cs660-web>`__, containing all of
  my course materials, including assignments and lecture notes.

Past Projects
-------------

Past projects (code not available here, but may be found on the
Internet) include:

- RSVP: Resource Reservation Protocol. RVSP helps to provide Quality
  of Service connections in the Internet by making resource
  reservations on routers. It was conceived by a group of researchers
  at USC/ISI and Xerox PARC, then evolved into a proposed standard
  within the IETF. I worked as the primary author of RSVP code in the
  SunOS 4.3 kernel, which was later ported to the BSD operating system
  kernels. Reference code can be downloaded from the FreeBSD team. I
  was also a member of the ISI Development team, which wrote the RSVP
  daemon distributed by ISI. ISI's RSVP daemon is a reference
  implementation for various venders; for example, RSVP is currently
  implemented in several Cisco routers. See *L. Zhang , S. Deering,
  D. Estrin, S. Shenker and D. Zappala, RSVP: A Resource ReSerVation
  Protocol. IEEE Network, September 1993* and RFC 2205.

- RSRR: A Routing Interface for RSVP Daniel Zappala, with revisions by
  Jeff Kann and others. RSRR is the interface between RSVP (Internet
  resource reservation protocol) and multicast routing protocols; RSRR
  is implemented in mrouted (multicast routing daemon) and RSVPd
  (Resource Reservation Protocol daemon). mrouted is distributed with
  most Unix operating systems.

- Treecalc: A Tool for Evaluating Multicast Routing Protocols, Daniel
  Zappala, with contributions by Aaron Fabbri. Treecalc compares
  different types of multicast trees based on delay, cost, traffic
  concentration, and router state. This simulator was used for our
  work on multiple cores and SSM proxies.

- SDRP: Source Demand Routing Protocol, Daniel Zappala and Kannan
  Varadhan. SDRP can be used to source route packets in the Internet,
  for example to avoid congestion. See RFC 1940.
