Teaching
##############

:date: 2013-09-05 00:03
:slug: teaching
:order: 2
:author: Daniel Zappala

Teaching
========

I have primarily taught networking classes during my career, with a
few forays into social networking and Western Civilization.

I keep all my class materials available online, including syllabi,
assignments, and code.

`CS 360 Internet Programming <http://ilab.cs.byu.edu/cs360>`__:
Internet application programming, including client-server and web
applications. Sockets, concurrency, thread-pool and event-driven
architectures, experimental performance evaluation, web database
application design, security issues. C++, Python, CSS, Javascript.

`CS 460 Computer Communications and Networking
<http://ilab.cs.byu.edu/cs460>`__: Introductory course in networking
for undergraduate and beginning graduate students. Focuses on
understanding how the Internet works, from the application layer down
to the link layer. Application-layer networking, transport protocols
(TCP and UDP), routing protocols, IP, link-level protocols, wireless
networking, and multimedia networking.

`CS 660 Computer Networks <http://ilab.cs.byu.edu/cs460>`__: This
graduate course explores advanced topics in computer networks,
focusing on fundamental research being conducted to improve the
Internet. Topics include applications, routing, transport, wireless,
measurements and other Internet research areas.

Mentoring
=========

I typically mentor teams of students interested in working on open
source software, through either CS 598R or CS 428. In past semesters,
this has led to the 20 Minute Genealogist project (now `Kinpoint
<http://kinpoint.com>`__), `leaf <http://leaf.byu.edu>`__,
and `Citizen Budget <http://citizenbudget.org>`__. I run the `BYU Open
Source Lab <http://osl.byu.edu>`__ to coordinate these activities.

Past Classes
============

`CS 601 Special Topics <http://ilab.cs.byu.edu/cs601>`__: Graduate
courses on `Social Networking <http://ilab.cs.byu.edu/cs601/2013w>`__,
`Wireless Mesh Networks <http://ilab.cs.byu.edu/cs601/2010w>`__, and
`Peer-to-Peer Networking <http://ilab.cs.byu.edu/cs601/2005w>`__.

`Digital Civilization
<http://digitalcivilization.blogspot.com/2010/08/welcome-to-class.html>`__:
Honors 202 Western Civilization 2, co-taught with Gideon Burton in the
English department in Fall 2010 and Winter 2012.  Teaches western
civilization from our current perspective in the digital
revolution. The course emphasizes self-directed learning and the use
of digital media (blogging, social bookmarking, social networking) to
understand and relate to the history of Western civilization.

For a good primer on the class, read these blog posts:

- `Keynesian Beauty Contest <http://digitalcivilization.blogspot.com/2010/11/keynesian-beauty-contest.html>`__

- `Social Discovery <http://digitalcivilization.blogspot.com/2010/11/social-discovery.html>`__

- `John Locke and the Internet <http://digitalcivilization.blogspot.com/2010/09/john-locke-and-internet.html>`__

- `Traditional vs. Digital Economies <http://digitalcivilization.blogspot.com/2010/09/traditional-vs-digital-economies.html>`__

- `Ten Ways Out of the Google or Wikipedia Rut <http://digitalcivilization.blogspot.com/2010/09/ten-ways-out-of-google-or-wikipedia-rut.html>`__

- `The Romantic Hacker <http://digitalcivilization.blogspot.com/2010/10/romantic-hacker.html>`__

If you're interested, you can also watch our final project
presentations, which were streamed live over the Internet: `Watch the
Digital Revolution
<http://digitalcivilization.blogspot.com/2010/12/watch-digital-revolution.html>`__.
